---
title: Introduction
description: Form introduction
---

# Introduction

Vunix provides a comprehensive set of components to help you build forms for your website. From basic input fields to complex form layouts, we've got you covered. And with our built-in validation process, you can ensure that user input is accurate and complete.

## Inputs

Our Input components offer a range of customized design and validation options for your website's input fields. Instead of relying on a generic Input component, we provide specific components for common input types such as email, password, number, text, and textarea. These components not only ensure a consistent design across your website, but also provide tailored validation to improve the user experience.

### Input base

The `VInputBase` component is a building block for form input fields that are based on the HTML `<input>` element. It provides a set of common features such as leading and trailing icons, which are inherited by other input components like `VInputText` and `VInputEmail`.

::alert{type="info"}
Check the description of the [VInputBase](/components/form/inputbase) component
::

### Input text

The [VInputText](/components/form/inputtext) component is a basic input that accepts all types of characters. 
You can learn more about this component [here](/components/form/inputtext).

::InputWithVmodel{component="VInputText" name="inputText" placeholder="Type some text" label="My input text"}
::

### Input email

The [VInputEmail](/components/form/inputemail) component is used when the input is expected to be an email.
You can learn more about this component [here](/components/form/inputemail).

::InputWithVmodel{component="VInputEmail" name="email" label="Email" placeholder="Type your email here" required}
::

### Input password

The [VInputPassword](/components/form/inputpassword) component is used when the input is expected to be a password. 
You can learn more about this component [here](/components/form/inputpassword).

::InputWithVmodel{component="VInputPassword" name="password" label="Password" placeholder="Type your password here" required}
::

### Input number

The [VInputNumber](/components/form/inputnumber) component is used when the input is expected to be a number. 
You can learn more about this component [here](/components/form/inputnumber).

::InputWithVmodel{component="VInputNumber" name="number" label="Number" placeholder="Type your number here" required}
::

### Textarea

The [VTextarea](/components/form/textarea) component is used when the input is expected to be a long text. 
You can learn more about this component [here](/components/form/textarea).

::TextAreaWithVmodel{name="description" label="My description" placeholder="Type some description here" maxlength="100"}
::