---
title: VInputBase
description: How to use features of VInputBase
---

# Input base

Vunix has a component called VInputBase that is used by all VInput\* components.
The component expose some features.

## Leading

The leading feature allow you to add an icon or custom content before the input.

### Icon with leading prop

Here an exemple of an icon added by using the prop `leading`.
The injected icon use the [VIcon](/components/other/icon) component

::InputWithVmodel{component="VInputText" name="inputLeadingIcon" placeholder="Search icon added before the input" leading="heroicons-solid:search"}
::

```html
<VInputText
  leading="heroicons-solid:search"
  name="inputLeadingIcon"
  placeholder="Search icon added before the input"
/>
```

### Custom leading slot

Here an exemple of how to inject custom html to the leading slot.

::FormInputBaseLeadingSlot{name="inputLeadingIcon" placeholder="Search icon added before the input"}
::

```html
<VInputText name="inputLeadingIcon" placeholder="Search icon added before the input">
  <template #leading>
    Kg
  </template>
</VInputText>
```

::alert{type="info"}
When the user click on the leading part a `leadingClick` event is emited.
::

## Trailing

The trainling feature allow you to add an icon or custom content after the input.

### Icon with traling prop

Here an exemple of an icon added by using the prop `leading`.
The injected icon use the [VIcon](/components/other/icon) component

::InputWithVmodel{component="VInputText" name="inputTrailingIcon" placeholder="Search icon added after the input" leading="heroicons-solid:search"}
::

```html
<VInputText
  leading="heroicons-solid:search"
  name="inputTrailingIcon"
  placeholder="Search icon added after the input"
/>
```

### Custom trailing slot

Here an exemple of how to inject custom html to the trailing slot.

::FormInputBaseTrailingSlot{name="inputTrailingIcon" placeholder="Search icon added after the input"}
::

```html
<VInputText name="inputTrailingIcon" placeholder="Search icon added after the input">
  <template #trailing>
    Mo
  </template>
</VInputText>
```

::alert{type="info"}
When the user click on the trailing part a `trailingClick` event is emited.
::