---
title: Introduction
description: 
constrainedClass: 'max-w-4xl'
---

# Overview
Welcome to Vunix, a powerful library of UI components designed to help you build beautiful, responsive web applications. Vunix is currently compatible with [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) and native CSS, and support for other frameworks like [Unocss](https://github.com/unocss/unocss), [WindiCss](https://windicss.org/) and more is coming soon.

At the heart of Vunix are its configurable component presets, which give you complete control over the look and feel of your application. 
Each component has its own configuration file, which guides the style included in your chosen theme. And if you want to customize the look of a particular component, Vunix makes it easy to override the preset with your own styles.

Our library includes a wide range of components, from basic UI elements like buttons and forms, to more complex features like modals. And because Vunix is designed with modularity in mind, you can easily mix and match components to create the perfect look for your application.

Whether you're a seasoned developer or just getting started, Vunix is the perfect tool to help you bring your web applications to life. So why not give it a try and see what you can create?

In the following sections, we will delve deeper into vunix's capabilities. To help you navigate through this guide, we have divided it into four main parts: Installation, Preset Override, Components, and Theming. You can use the links below to jump directly to the section that interests you the most."

## Installation
To install Vunix, you can follow the instructions provided in our [installation guide](/get-started/installation).

## Preset Override
Vunix comes with a set of preset components, each with its own configuration file that guides its style. These presets can easily be overridden by the user. [In this section](/get-started/preset), we'll go over how to override presets to customize your Vunix components.

## Components
Vunix provides a wide range of components that you can use to build your UI. From buttons and forms to modals and tabs, Vunix has everything you need to create a cohesive and professional-looking interface. [In this section](/components), we'll explore the various components that Vunix offers and how you can use them in your project.

## Theming
With Vunix, you can easily customize the look and feel of your UI by applying different themes. Vunix comes with a set of predefined themes, and you can also create your own themes to match your branding or style preferences. [In this section](/theming), we'll show you how to create and use themes.





